there's a couple reasons why remote work
is so specifically difficult to measure
whether it's good or bad one you cannot
AB test it meaning we can't create the
same company twice one in office and one
out of office like that just does not
happen because it minimally you'd have
to have different people working on it
which means you're going to have to have
a huge variation of this right you'd
actually have to have many many many
many many thousands of companies started
in which two companies are actually
started one in office one out of office
just to even if productivity really is
better in office or out of office you
can't like I don't think we can even say
there's some sort of productivity gain
or loss uh but second I think one thing
that's really been hard on measurements
is that we have this whole edification
process right like enh ification is real
nidification is absolutely real like
everything feels shittier over the last
four years is this because of remote
work is this because of covid is this
because of just us with the ever
progressing desire to make more money
from VCS constantly pushing products to
be released early is it because people
are burnt out is it because of what I
don't know I I have no idea I know
people say greed but I think that
whenever you just blame it on one single
thing I think you're just simply being
dimwitted okay I think it's a lot more
difficult consumerism because
consumerism is the other side of the
coin to Greed right and [ __ ] ification
is a real real problem and so it's like
why are things just generally getting
shittier I don't know why things are
generally getting shittier and [ __ ]
ification is just a Non-Stop thing
that's been marching forward constantly
it got to be the vaccines it's probably
the vaccines corporate greed has and is
a bigger problem postco I don't believe
you I think they are greedy AF
beforehand and I think the greedy AF
afterwards right that's a hell of a clip
it's still the same I think that if you
would have measure I think it's the
corporate greed is something that looks
like this if this is time this is levels
of greed this is zero this is one I
think corporate operates like this okay
it's just a straight line okay I think
before it was greedy I think afterwards
it's greedy of course there is always
going to be some company that doesn't
operate this way as much and treats
their employees significantly better but
you know that's a rarity okay I don't
know like I think it's exceptionally
impossible to really understand if
remote work is actually better I think
that this is a problem that we can argue
about forever and I think that if you
just truly think one is better than the
other I know I feel like you're just
being too onedimensional about it and I
think it's also a generational question
I think some people will find certain
ways better like you know like I I don't
like VR that much okay there's a lot of
people that can just sit in VR all day
like I'm just not that person I'm just
not VR guy right I I mean I like it it's
cool oh it's super cool I also might
throw up I you know it's just like I'm
old man my my little my little braid my
little ear my little ear has a lot of
bubbles in it okay I'm just going to
throw up now okay V causes headaches
also if you're young and you use VR
apparently it's extremely bad for
long-term eyesight like you know there's
a lot of very tricky things it gets
better over time I'm sure it does but
I'm going to have to actually lean into
it over time right uh but again I just
think that these these arguments overall
are one-dimensional because there's
aspects that are going to be better in
one than the other and you just have to
choose what aspects you wish to Max and
which aspects you wish to minimize like
me personally I'm kind of pretty much up
to the point where if you said I had the
move to San Francisco I would say no if
you told me that I had to commute for an
hour a day I'd say no but that also
means that I might have to get paid less
I may have less job opportunity I may
have less you know less specific
opportunities that's fine but that's a
that's that's a choice I'm willing to
make
