Yeah, three habits that would improve everybody's lives on a daily basis. So hard to give an answer like that because obviously everybody's dealing with different stuff. But there are a few things I think I do genuinely think most people benefit from. So the easy answer would be, or the easy way to frame this would be reading, but I don't think it actually has to be reading books. I think it just is the habit of learning something new. So if you, you know, listening to podcasts, reading book, watching a good YouTube video, whatever, it doesn't matter what version of that it is. But if you go to bed a little bit smarter than you were when you woke up, that's going to improve your life. And just having this thirst for lifelong learning, having an eagerness to learn or discover something new each day, it's going to pay off in a huge way in the long run, no matter what topics you're interested in. So habit of some small habit of daily learning, let's just call it learn something new for 10 minutes each day. Some sort of physical activity, you know, this is I think an important realization about all habits, which is in most areas of life, there might not be a thousand ways to do something, but there's almost always more than one way. And you know, I like working out in the gym, but not everybody wants to train like a body builder. And that's fine. You know, like you can kayak or go running or rock climbing or ride a bike or whatever. There's like a bazillion ways to live an active lifestyle. And you should choose the version of your habits that is most exciting to you. Like in a way, that's the first biggest hurdle to clear when building habits is have you selected a habit that you're genuinely interested in that you're actually engaged with. Because if it's something that you actually care about, there are going to be like endless opportunities for improvement. If you're not actually care, if you don't actually care about it, if you're just doing it because you kind of feel like society is encouraging you to do it or your parents want you to do it or your peers are kind of subtly saying, Hey, this is something you should do. And even the obvious improvements are going to feel like a chore. You know, so let's call it 10 minutes of learning something new, some sort of physical activity, whatever is exciting or interesting to you. And then I think the other one is a process, a habit of reflection and review. So it's very easy in life to be so busy or working on stuff heads down or just have the next task come up, whether it's things you got to do for your kids or responsibilities at work that you never take even five minutes to step back and just breathe and ask yourself, Am I working on the right thing? You know, am I directing my attention and energy to the highest and best use? And boy, there is nothing so wasteful as working hard on the wrong thing. You know, like so many people work really hard, but are you directing your energy and attention to the best spot? And so the only way to discover that, like I know I'm not smart enough to figure it out on the first time. Like I can't, I can't just sit down, give me five minutes and be like, Oh, this is exactly what I should be focused on. It takes iteration. It takes refinement. It takes a process of reflecting and reviewing and looking back on the previous day and be like, Hey, was that a good way to spend my time? Like did I live a good life today? And the more that you do that, the more you start to course correct. And the other tricky thing and the reason this needs to be a habit that you revisit consistently, I don't necessarily think it needs to be daily, but consistently is the answer changes over time. You know, like what you want shifts over time, the situation you're in or the resources you have or the time you have shifts over time. And so you need to keep coming back to this. Maybe it's every week, maybe it's once a year, but whatever it is, you need a chance to reflect and review and to try to ask yourself and to try to ask yourself. Is there a better way to do this? Am I working on the right thing? Am I working on what actually matters? Am I directing my attention and energy in the highest and best way? Yeah. 